Section 2.1 - Data Analytics Process

In this lesson I will learn:

+ the steps in the analytic process,
+ the skills and tools required for Data Analysis,
+ the challenges that I will get to face in the data analytics process, 
+ the exploratory data analysis or DEA technique,
+ data visualization techniques,
+  ...and the use of hyphotesis testing to analyze data. 

Today we have access to a lot of data, but unless we know what to do with it, it won't be of any help to us. 

Let's take an example of a fictional bank statement to understand this. 

A bank statement usually lists every single transaction, either a deposit or a withdrawal, along with the amount left in the account.
Though the statement is highly descriptive and is a good source of information it doesn't show you the spending or saving patterns of
the user. But the moment you present the same data as a line chart you ca easily spot the overall transaction pattern.

If you compare this pattern over a period of three months, you can also spot if there is a shift from the regular pattern. 

Here you can see that there is an unusual spike in the spinning pattern of the user, between two particular dates. This kind of data
analysis is what alerts the banks to instances of identity theft or fraud. For ecommerce websites analysing buying patterns of users can 
help the understand what kind of customers are lore likely to buy a certain type of product. This is how data analysis makes your data
work for you. 

A bank statement is an example of a highly structured data set. Most data sets that you would have to work with will not be so structured. 
You will have to clean it up before you could use it in any constructive way. That's why data analytics involves a combination of processes
to help you extract information from these data sets. Along with domain knowledge, you will need programming, mathematical and statistical 
skills to arrive at a decision making process with the help of data. Data analytics is a step by step process to reach a conclusion. 

Let's look at these steps briefly. The first step in the process is to ask questions to identify the business problem. The next step is data
acquisition or collecting data sets related to the business problem or question from the real world. The third step comprises data wrangling
with data tools and modern technologies that include data cleansing and data manipulation. The next step is exploratory data analysis or EDA;
with mathematical or graphical output to aid data analysis. Data exploration is the next step that discovers data and identifies patterns in 
data. The next step is to draw conclusions and make predictions by creating training models for machine learning. This step uses a lot of 
mathematical or statistical functions. The last step is communication or data visualization to prosent the analysis work. 

In summary:

(1) Business problem > (2) Data acquisition > (3) Data wrangling > (4) Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) > (5) Data exploration > 
(6) Conclusion or prediction > (7) Communication

Let's now look at each step in detail:

The process of analytics mostly begins with questions or business problems of stakeholders. Here are a few examples of questions:

+ Who are my customers?
+ Why are my sales going down?
+ How do I manage my inventory?
+ Why is my system not scaling up with increasing traffic volume?

Such business problems usually trigger the need to analyze data and answer the questions raised. This leads us to the next step.

To answer the questions or to address the business problem raised in step one, the next step is for you to gather or collect data. 
This process is know as data acquisition.

The main task is to collect relevant data associated with the problem. The data could be resigning elsewhere. A data scientist has to use
database skills to fetch the data from databases. Expertise with file handling and ability to deal with different file formats is an important
skill to download and analyze the data. Webscrapping is a popular way to extract information from the web. A lot of informatiion sites provide
streaming API's such as Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, among other major social media and information companies. The server logs can also be 
extracted from enterprise system servers to analyze the application performance and optimize the overall process. 

Data wrangling and exploration is the most important phase of the Data Analytic process. This phase includes data cleansing, data manipulation,
data discovery and data pattern identification. Usually data is neither in the expected format not is it consistent. The data cleansing process
gets rid of unwanted elements present in the data. Data manipulation techniques such as transform, merge, aggregates, goup-by and reshape,
transform the data and make it available for exploratory data analysis. Data exploration uses all the available data and presents it in either
a numerical or graphical format. This helps to identify the right patters in the data. The data and the underlying pattern are fed into appropriate
machine learning models leading directly to the prediction and conclusion phase. 



