Introductory Lesson of the Data Science with Python Course.

Here, we will go over some interesting information about Data Science and Python. 

Have you ever been asked by your stakeholders who your existing customers are?...and, how do you retain them in this competitive market?. Or, how do you find
new business opportunities?. How do your analyze the existing and historical data to offer some new line of data driven porducts and services?; or, how do you
buld a system which is highly available and scalable by analyzing the server logs and understandin the isssue patterns?

Well, Data Science is the answer for all such questions. 

Data Science is a new, powerful approach and discipline which combines aspects of statistics, mathematics, programming and visual techniques to turn data into
information in semi or fully automated fashion. Data Scientist are highly in demand and valued. And as a Data Scientist it will be your job to analyze the data
and offer solutions and ideas for improvement and organizations.

Doesn't it sound exciting?

Python is one of the most widely used technologies in this domain. It has an extensive library with built-in modules, providing easy anness to system
functionalities, which not only improves accessibility but also provides standarized solutions for everyday programming challenges. Apart form being and open
source ecosystem, Python and most of its incredible libraries are platform independent. Python is part of the winning formula for productivity, software
quality and maintain ability for many companies. And because of its flat learning curve, it's one of the leading technologies used globally.

So how does the future look for Python as a toll for data science?

According to cady nuggets, 46% of the data science jobs list Python as a required skill, second only to SQL. According to a survey by the Association for
Computing machinery, or ACM, posted on javaworld.com, Python has surpassed Java as the top language used to introduce the U.S. students to programming and
computer science. 

The Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency, awarded $3 million to develop data analytics and data processing libraries for Python. McKinsey & Company, a
trusted advisor and counselor for many of the world's most influencial business and institutions, projects that by 2018 the demand for data scientists who 
know Python may surpass supply by perhaps 60%, making Python a must-know skill for a data scientist. Forbes.com mentions that the demand for Python programmers 
in big data related positions increased by 96.9% in the last 12 months.

Learning data science was never this much fun! 

Before diving into the course details, let's get a glimpse into our exciting range of learning modules:

+ Delve into Python!
+ Play with Python!
+ Learn the Python way!
+ Be the Python coder!

Simplilearn's Data Science with Python course, comprises forty hours of instructor-led training, twentyfour hours of E-learning, four real life industry projects,
assigments, and thre question sets comprising fifty questions each. To get certified in data science with Python, you need to:

+ complete any one project and get them evaluated by the lead trainer.
+ score at least 80% on the online exam.

Teaching assistant support from the Simplilearn staff any time during the course and for the projects. Queries can also be submitted at help and support on
www.simplilearn.com or get connected with the staff on simplitalk and live chat options. 

Prerequisite for this course is a fundamental knowledge of Python. Don't have it, don't worry. Subscribe to Simplilearn's Python for beginners course, for free
and that's about it. 

Go ahead and begin Data Science with Python course and get started with the first lesson, Data Science Overview.

Happy learning!

. 
