Lesson 1 - Data Science Overview

Through this lesson I will get to know what Data Science is and the skills I  need as a Data Scientist. This will help me discuss clearly my roles and
responsibilities as a data scientist and look at various applications of data science. I  will also learn how data science works with big data to extract 
useful information, explore data science as a discipline and understand how it's shapping the world. This lesson will throw light on the importance of data science
and will help me learn and understand Python, a popular programming language used by data scientists, the problems it resolves and how it's an effective and user-
friendly data sciece tool.

What is Data Science?

Let's start with some of the common definitions that's doing the rounds. Some say that data science is a powerful new approach for making discoveries from data.
Others term is as an automated way to analyze enormous amounts of data and extract information from it. Still others refer to it as a new discipline which combines
aspects of statistics, mathematics, programming and visualization to gain insights. 

Now that I have looked at some of its definitions, let's learn more about data science.

When domain expertise and scientific methods are combined with technology, we get data science which enables one to find solutions for existing problems. Let's 
look at each of the componets of data science separately. 

The first component is: Domain Expertise and Scientific Methods.

Data Scientists collect data and explore, analyze, and visualize it. The apply mathematical and statistical models to find patterns and solutions in the data. They
should also be domain experts as they need to have a passion for data and discover the right patterns in them. Traditionally, domain experts like scientists and
statisticians collected and anlyzed the data in a laboratory setup or a controlled invironment. The data was then subject to relevant laws or mathematical and 
statistical models to analyze the data set and derive relevant information from it. For instance, they use the models to calculate the mean, median, mode, standard
deviation and so on of a data set. It helped them test their hyphotesis or create a new one.

Next, I will see how data science technology has now made this process faster and more efficient, but before I need to understand the different types of data
analysis. An important aspect of data science.

Data Analysis can either be descriptive where one studies a data set to explain what happened or be predictive, where one creates a model based on existing
information to predict the outcome and behavior. It can also be prescriptive, where one suggests the action to be taken in a given situation, using the collected
information.

We now have access to tools and techniques that process data and extract the information we need. For instance, there are data processing tools for data wrangling.
W have new and flexible programming languages that are more efficient and easier to use. With the creation of operating systems that support multiple OS platforms
it's now easier to integrate systems and process big data. Application designs and extensive software libraries helped develop more robust, scalable and data
driven applications. 

Data Scientists use this technologies to build data models and run them in a automated fashion to predict the outcome efficiently. This is called machine learning,
which helps provide insights into the underlying data. They can also use data science technology to manipulate data, extract information from it and use it to 
build tools, applications and services. But, technological skills and domain expertise alone without the right mathematical and statistical knowledge, might lead
data scientists to find incorrect patterns and convey wrong information. This can cause serious damage to businesses.


Now that I have learned what Data Science is, it will be easier to understand what a Data Scientist does.

Data Scientist start with a question or a business problem. Then they use data acquisition to collect data sets from the real world. The process of data wrangling
is implemented with data tools and modern technologies that include data cleansing, data manipulation, data discovery and data pattern identification. The next 
step is to create and train models for machine learning. They then design matematical or statistical models. After designing a data model, it's represented using
data visualization techniques. The next task is to prepare a data report. After the report is prepared, they finally create data products and services. 

Let us now look at the various skills a data scientist should have.

Data Scientists should ask the right questions for which they need domain expertise. The curiosity to learn and create concepts and the ability to communicate
questions effectively to domain experts. Data Scientists should think analytically to understand the hidden patterns in the data structure. They should wrangle 
the data by removing redundant and irrelevant data collected from various sources. Statistical thinking and the ability to apply mathematical methods are important
traits for a data scientist.

Data should be visualized with graphics and proper storytelling to summarize and communicate the analytical results to the audience. To get these skills, they 
should follow a distinct roadmap.

It's important they adopt the required tools and techniques like Python and it's libraries. They should build projects using real world data sets that include
data.gov, NYC OpenData, gapminder, and so on. They should also build data driven applications for digital services and data products.

Scientists work with different types of datasets for various purposes. Now that Big Data is generated every second through different media, the role of Data
Science has become more important. So you need to know what big data is and how you are connected to it, to figure out a way to make it work for you. 

Every time you record your heartbeat through your phone's biometric sensors, post or tweet on social network, create any blog or website, switch on your phone's
GPS network, upload or view an image, video or audio, in fact, every time you log into the internet you are generating data about yourself, your preferences and
your lifestyle. 

Big data es a collection of these and a lot more data that the World is constantly creating. In this age of the internet of things or IoT, Big Data is a reality 
and a need.

Big Data is usually referenced by three Vs: Volume, Velocity, and Variety. 

+ Volume refers to the enormous amount of data generated from various sources.
+ Velocity; refers to huge amounts of data that flow at a tremendous speed from different devices, sensors and applications. To deal with it, an efficient
  and timely data processing is required.
+ Variety; because big data can be categorized into different formats like Structured, semi structured, and unstructured. 

Structured Data is usually referenced to as RDBMS data, which can be stored and retrieved easily through SQL.

Semi structured data are usually in the form of files like XML, JSON documents, and NoSQL database.

Unstructured data are Text files, images, videos, or multimedia content. 

In short, big data is a very large information database usually stored on distributed systems or machines popularly referred to as Hadoop clusters. But to be 
able to use this database, we have to find a way to extract the right information and data patterns from it. That's where data science comes in. Data Science
helps to build information-driven enterprises.
