Section 1.2 - Different Sectors Using Data Science

Let's go on to see the applications of data science in different sectors.

Social network platforms such as Google, Yahoo, Facebook and so on, collect a lot of data everyday. Which is why they have some if the most advanced data
centers spread across the world. Having data centers all over the world and not just in the US, help these companies serve their international customers better
and faster without any network latency. They also help them deal effectively with the enormous amount of data. 

So, what do all these different sectors (Social Network Platforms, Search Engines, Healthcare, Finance, Public Sector, etc.) do with all this data?.

Their team of scientists analyze all the raw data with the help of modern algorithms and data models to turn it into information. They then use this information
to build digital services, data products and information driven webs or applications.

Now, let's see how these products and services work. Well, first look at LinkedIn. Let's suppose that you are a data scientist based in NYC, so it's quite likely
that you would want to join a group or build connections with people related to data science there. So what LinkedIn does is to llok at your profile, your posts
and likes, the city you are from, the people you are connected to and the groups you belong to. Then it matches all that information with its own database to
provide you with information that is most relevant to you. This is information could be in the form of news updates that you might be interested in. Industry
connections or professional groups that you might want to get in touch with. Or even job postings related to your field and designation. These are all examples
of data services. 

Let's now look at something that we use every day: Google's search engine. 

Google's search engine has the most unique search algorithm which allows machine learning models to provide relavant search recommendations even as the user types
in his ir her query. This feature is called Auto Complete. It is an excellent example of how powerful machine learning can be. There are several factors that
influence this feature. The first one is query volume. Google's algorithms identify unique and verifiable users that search for any particular keywords on the
web. Based on that, it builds a query volume. For instance, Republican debate 2016, Ebola threat, CDC or the Center of Disease Control, and so on, are some of the
most common user queries. Another important factor is a geographical location. The algorithms tag a query with the locations from where it is generated. This 
makes a query volume location specific. It's a very important feature because this allows Google to provide relevant search recommendations to its user based on
his or her location. And then of course, the algorithm consider the actual keyword and phrases that the user types in. It takes up those words and crawls the web
looking for similar instances. The algorithms also track or filter or scrub out inappropriate content, for instance, sexual violence or terrorism related content,
hate speeches and legal cases are scrubbed out from the search recommendations. 

But, how does Data Science can help you?

Today, even the health care industry is beginning to tap into the various applications of data science. To understand this, let's look at wearable devices. 
These devices have biometric sensors and a built in processor to gather data from your body when you are wearing them. They transmit this data to the Big Data
Analytics Platform via IoT gateway. Ideally, the platform collects hundreds of thousands of data points and the collected data is ingested into the system, or 
Enterprise Infrastructure, for further processing. The Big Data Analytics Platform applies data models created by data scientists and extracts the information
that is relevant to you. It sends the information to the engagement dashboard where you can see how many steps you have done, what's your herat rate over a 
period of time, how good your sleep was, how many calories you burned, and so on. Knowing such details would help you to set personal goals for a healthy 
lifestyle and reduce overall health care and insurance costs. It would also help your doctor record your vitals and diagnose any issue.

The finance sector can easily use data science to help it function more efficiently. 

Suppose a person applies for a loan. The loan manager submits the application to the enterprise infrastructure for processing. The analytics platform applies data
models and algorithms and creates an engagement dashboard for the loan manager. The dashboard would show the applicant's credit report, credit history, amount, 
if approved, and riks associated with him or her. The loan manager can not easily take a llok at all the relevant information and decide whether the loan can be 
approved or not. 

Governments across different countries are gradually sharing large datasets from various domains with the public. This kind of transparency makes the goverment
seem more trustworthy. It provides the country data that can be used to prepare itself for different kinds of issues like climate change and disease control. It
also helps people to create their own digital products and services. The US government hosts and maintains data.gov, a website that offers information about the
federal goverment. It provides access to over 195,000 datasets across different sectors. The US goverment has kicked off a number of strategic initiatives in the 
field of data science that includes US digital service and open data. 
