Section 1.3 - Purpose and Components of Python

We have seen how data science can be applied across different sectors. Let's now take a look at the various challenges that a data scientist faces in the
real world while dealing with data sets and data quality, mostly, when is not up to the set standards. You will usually come across data that is inconsistent,
innacurate, incomplete, not in the desireable format and with anomalies. Data integration with several enterprise applications and systems is a complex and 
painstaking task.

Unified Platform:

Data is distributed to HAdoop distributed file system or HDFS, from various sources to ingest process, analyze and visualize huge data sets. The size of these
Hadoop clusters can vary from a few nodes to thousands of nodes. The challenge is to perform analytics on these large datasets efficiently and effectively. This 
is where Python comes into play with its powerful set of libraries, functions, modules, packages and extensions.

Python can efficiently tackle each stage of data analytics that includes data acquisition. Python libraries, such as Scrapy comes handy here. 

Data Wrangling; Python data frames are very efficient in handling large data sets and makes data wrangling easier with its powerful functions. 

Explore; Matplotlib libraries are very rich when it comes to data exploration.

Model; Scikit learns stastistical and mathematical functions to help to build models for machine learning. 

Visualization; modern libraries such as Bokeh creates very intuitive and interactive visualization. Its huge set of libraries and functions make a big data
analytics seem easy and hence solve the bigger problem.

Python applications and programs are portable and helps them scale out on any big data platform. Python is an open source programming language that lets you 
work quickly and integrate systems more effectively. 

Now that we have talked about how Python Libraries help the different stages of data analytics. Let's take a closer look at these libraries and how they 
support different aspects of data science. 

NumPy, or Numerical Python, is the fundamental package for scientific computin.

SciPy, is the core of scientific computing libraries and provides many user friendly and efficiently designed numerical routines.

MatPlotLib, is a Python 2D plotting library, which produces publication quality figures in a variety of hard copy formats and interactive environments across 
platforms.

SciKit learn, is built on NumPy, SciPy, and MatPlotLib for data mining and data analysis. 

Pandas, is a library providing high performance, easy to use data structures, and data analysis tools for Python. 

All these libraries, modules, and packages are open source and hence using them is convenient and easy. 

There are numerous factors which position Python well and makes it the tool for data science:

+ Python is easy to learn and it's a general purpose function and object oriented programming language. 
+ As Python is an open source programming language, it is readily available, easy to install and get started.
+ It also has a large presence of open source community for software development and support.
+ Python and it's tool enjoy multi platform support.
+ Applications developed with Python, integrate easily with other enterprise systems and applications.
+ There are a lot of tools platforms and products in the market from different vendors as they offer great support services.
+ Python and it's libraries create unique combinatiions for data science. 

Because of all these benefits, it;s usually popular among academicians, mathematicians, statisticians, and technologists.  

Python is well supported by well established data platforms and processing frameworks that help it analyzed data in a simple and efficient way. 

Big Data > Entreprise Big Data Platform > Big Data Processing Framework > Python > Data Scientist. 

Enterprise Big Data Platform; Cloudera is the pioneer inprovidin enterprise-ready Haddop Big data platform and supports Python. Hortonworks is another 
Hadoop big data platform provider and supports Python. Map produce, or MAPR, is also committed to Python and provides the Hadoop Big Data platform.

Big Data Processing Framework; Mar-produce, Spark and Flink provides very robust and unique data processing framework and support Python.

Java Scala and Python languages are used for big data processing framework.
